tools/docker/README.md, before:

# Using docker-compose for local development
The docker-compose configuration present in this directory allows for a user to quickly setup all of chainlink's services to perform actions like integration tests, acceptance tests, and development across multiple services.

# Requirements
- [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

# Using the compose script
Inside the `chainlink/tools/docker` directory, there is a helper script that is included which should cover all cases of integration / acceptance / development needs acroos multiple services. To see a list of available commands, perform the following:

```sh
$ cd tools/docker
$ ./compose help
```

## Examples
### Acceptance testing
Acceptance can be accomplished by using the `acceptance` command.
```sh
./compose acceptance
```
- The explorer can be reached at `http://localhost:3001`
- The chainlink node can be reached at `http://localhost:6688`

Credentials for logging into the operator-ui can be found [here](../secrets/apicredentals)

### 
### Doing local development on the core node
Doing quick, iterative changes on the core codebase can still be achieved within the compose setup with the `cld` or `cldo` commands.
The `cld` command will bring up the services that a chainlink node needs to connect to (explorer, parity/geth, postgres), and then attach the users terminal to a docker container containing the host's chainlink repostiory bind-mounted inside the container at `/usr/local/src/chainlink`. What this means is that any changes made within the host's repository will be synchronized to the container, and vice versa for changes made within the container at `/usr/local/src/chainlink`.

This enables a user to make quick changes on either the container or the host, run `cldev` within the attached container, check the new behaviour of the re-built node, and repeat this process until the desired results are achieved.

```sh
$ ./compose cld
#
# $$ denotes that we're now in the chainlink container
$$ cldev # cldev without the "core" postfix simply calls the core node cli
#
# NAME:
#    main - CLI for Chainlink
# 
# USAGE:
#    main [global options] command [command options] [arguments...]
# 
# VERSION:
#    unset@unset
# 
# COMMANDS:
#    admin              Commands for remotely taking admin related actions
#    bridges            Commands for Bridges communicating with External Adapters
#    config             Commands for the node's configuration
#    jobs               Commands for managing Jobs
#    node, local        Commands for admin actions that must be run locally
#    runs               Commands for managing Runs
#    txs                Commands for handling Ethereum transactions
#    agreements, agree  Commands for handling service agreements
#    attempts, txas     Commands for managing Ethereum Transaction Attempts
#    createextrakey     Create a key in the node's keystore alongside the existing key; to create an original key, just run the node
#    initiators         Commands for managing External Initiators
#    help, h            Shows a list of commands or help for one command
# 
# GLOBAL OPTIONS:
#    --json, -j     json output as opposed to table
#    --help, -h     show help
#    --version, -v  print the version
$$ cldev core # import our testing key and api credentials, then start the node
# 
# ** Importing default key 0x9ca9d2d5e04012c9ed24c0e513c9bfaa4a2dd77f
# 2019-12-11T20:31:18Z [INFO]  Locking postgres for exclusive access with 500ms timeout orm/orm.go:74        #   
# 2019-12-11T20:31:18Z [WARN]  pq: relation "migrations" does not exist           migrations/migrate.go:149 
# ** Running node
# 2019-12-11T20:31:20Z [INFO]  Starting Chainlink Node 0.7.0 at commit 7324e9c476ed6b5c0a08d5a38779d4a6bfbb3880 cmd/local_client.go:27  
# 2019-12-11T20:31:20Z [INFO]  SGX enclave *NOT* loaded                           cmd/enclave.go:11       
# 2019-12-11T20:31:20Z [INFO]  This version of chainlink was not built with support for SGX tasks cmd/enclave.go:12       
# ...
# ...
```

`cldo` allows the user to perform the same actions above, but also applied to the operator-ui codebase and the core codebase. The operator-ui will be hosted in hot-reload/development mode at `http://localhost//3000`. To see the build progress of operator-ui, we can open another terminal to watch its output while we can mess around with the core node in the original terminal.

In the first terminal:
```sh
$ ./compose cldo
#
# $$ denotes that we're now in the chainlink container
$$ cldev # cldev without the "core" postfix simply calls the core node cli
#
# NAME:
#    main - CLI for Chainlink
# 
# USAGE:
#    main [global options] command [command options] [arguments...]
# 
# VERSION:
#    unset@unset
# 
# COMMANDS:
#    admin              Commands for remotely taking admin related actions
#    bridges            Commands for Bridges communicating with External Adapters
#    config             Commands for the node's configuration
#    jobs               Commands for managing Jobs
#    node, local        Commands for admin actions that must be run locally
#    runs               Commands for managing Runs
#    txs                Commands for handling Ethereum transactions
#    agreements, agree  Commands for handling service agreements
#    attempts, txas     Commands for managing Ethereum Transaction Attempts
#    createextrakey     Create a key in the node's keystore alongside the existing key; to create an original key, just run the node
#    initiators         Commands for managing External Initiators
#    help, h            Shows a list of commands or help for one command
# 
# GLOBAL OPTIONS:
#    --json, -j     json output as opposed to table
#    --help, -h     show help
#    --version, -v  print the version
$$ cldev core # import our testing key and api credentials, then start the node
# 
# ** Importing default key 0x9ca9d2d5e04012c9ed24c0e513c9bfaa4a2dd77f
# 2019-12-11T20:31:18Z [INFO]  Locking postgres for exclusive access with 500ms timeout orm/orm.go:74        #   
# 2019-12-11T20:31:18Z [WARN]  pq: relation "migrations" does not exist           migrations/migrate.go:149 
# ** Running node
# 2019-12-11T20:31:20Z [INFO]  Starting Chainlink Node 0.7.0 at commit 7324e9c476ed6b5c0a08d5a38779d4a6bfbb3880 cmd/local_client.go:27  
# 2019-12-11T20:31:20Z [INFO]  SGX enclave *NOT* loaded                           cmd/enclave.go:11       
# 2019-12-11T20:31:20Z [INFO]  This version of chainlink was not built with support for SGX tasks cmd/enclave.go:12       
# ...
# ...
```

In a new terminal:
```sh
docker logs operator-ui -f
```
You'll now have two terminals, one with the core node, one with operator-ui, with both being able to react to code changes without rebuilding their respective images.

### Running integration test suites
The integration test suite will run against a parity node by default. You can run the integration test suite with the following command:
```sh
$ ./compose test
```

If you want to run the test suite against a geth node, you can set the `GETH_MODE` environment variable.
```sh
$ GETH_MODE=true ./compose test
```

If we want to quickly test new changes we make to `integration/` or `tools/ci/ethereum_test` without re-building our images, we can use the `test:dev` command which will reflect those changes from the host file system without rebuilding those containers.
```sh
$ ./compose test:dev
```

### Cleaning up
To remove any containers, volumes, and networks related to our docker-compose setup, we can run the `clean` command:
```sh
./compose clean
```

### Running your own commands based off of docker-compose
The following commands allow you do just about anything:
```sh
$ ./compose <subcommand>
$ ./compose integration <subcommand> # or ./compose i
$ ./compose dev:integration <subcommand> # or ./compose di
$ ./compose dev <subcommand>
```
For example, to see what our compose configuration looks like:
```sh
$ ./compose config # base config
$ ./compose dev:integration # development integration test config
```

Or, to run just an ethereum node:
```sh
$ ./compose up devnet # start a parity devnet node
```
```sh
$ GETH_MODE=true ./compose up devnet # start a geth devnet node
```

# Environment Variables
For more information regarding environment variables, the docker [documentation](https://docs.docker.com/compose/environment-variables/) explains it in great detail.
All of the environment variables listed under the `environment` key in each service contains a default entry under the `.env` file of this directory. Additional environment variables can be added by using the `chainlink-variables.env` file. Both files are further expanded upon below.

## Overriding existing variables 
The existing variables listed under the `environment` key in each service can be overridden by setting a shell environment variable of the same key. For example, referring to `ETH_CHAIN_ID` variable under the `node` service, the default value of `ETH_CHAIN_ID` in `.env` is `34055`. If we wanted to change this to `1337`, we could set a shell variable to override this value.

```sh
export ETH_CHAIN_ID=1337
./compose acceptance # ETH_CHAIN_ID now has the value of 1337, instead of the default value of 34055
```

## Adding new environment variables
What if we want to add new environment variables that are not listed under the `environment` key of a service? `docker-compose` provides us with a way to pass our own variables that are not defined under the `environment` key by using an [env_file](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/#env_file). We can see from our `docker-compose.yaml` file that there is an env file under the name of `chainlink-variables.env`. In this file, you can specify any extra environment variables that you'd like to pass to the associated container.

For example, lets say we want to pass the variable `ALLOW_ORIGINS` defined in `store/orm/schema.go`, so that we can serve our api from a different port without getting CORS errors. We can't pass this in as a shell variable, as the variable is not defined under the `environment` key under the `node` service. What we can do though, is specify `ALLOW_ORIGINS` in `chainlink-variables.env`, which will get passed to the container.
```sh
# assuming that we're in the tools/docker directory

# Add our custom environment variable
echo "ALLOW_ORIGINS=http://localhost:1337" > chainlink-variables.env

# now the node will allow requests from the origin of http://localhost:1337 rather than the default value of http://localhost:3000,http://localhost:6688
./compose acceptance
```

# FAQs

## My storage space is full! How do I clean up docker's disk usage?

```
docker system prune
```

## The build process takes up a lot of resources / brings my computer to a halt

The default configuration tries to build everything in parallel.  You can avoid this by clearing the Docker Compose build options.

```
# Use docker compose's default build configuration
export DOCKER_COMPOSE_BUILD_OPTS=""
```

Commit message:

docker: Notify docker not a requirement
Set a policy of not requiring docker as a development tool by giving
notice in the docker tool's README.

Docker's abstracts away a lot of effort when dealing with the
dependencies on a project.  The problem is when the project -relies- on
Docker, it adds an additional layer of abstraction and significant
resources to support it.

tools/docker/README.md, after:

# Using docker-compose for local development

The docker-compose configuration present in this directory allows for a user to quickly setup all of chainlink's services to perform actions like integration tests, acceptance tests, and development across multiple services.

Docker and this tool set are not required to develop on Chainlink, however they will greatly assist in setting up supporting environment.

# Requirements
- [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

# Using the compose script
Inside the `chainlink/tools/docker` directory, there is a helper script that is included which should cover all cases of integration / acceptance / development needs acroos multiple services. To see a list of available commands, perform the following:

```sh
$ cd tools/docker
$ ./compose help
```

## Examples
### Acceptance testing
Acceptance can be accomplished by using the `acceptance` command.
```sh
./compose acceptance
```
- The explorer can be reached at `http://localhost:3001`
- The chainlink node can be reached at `http://localhost:6688`

Credentials for logging into the operator-ui can be found [here](../secrets/apicredentals)

### 
### Doing local development on the core node
Doing quick, iterative changes on the core codebase can still be achieved within the compose setup with the `cld` or `cldo` commands.
The `cld` command will bring up the services that a chainlink node needs to connect to (explorer, parity/geth, postgres), and then attach the users terminal to a docker container containing the host's chainlink repostiory bind-mounted inside the container at `/usr/local/src/chainlink`. What this means is that any changes made within the host's repository will be synchronized to the container, and vice versa for changes made within the container at `/usr/local/src/chainlink`.

This enables a user to make quick changes on either the container or the host, run `cldev` within the attached container, check the new behaviour of the re-built node, and repeat this process until the desired results are achieved.

```sh
$ ./compose cld
#
# $$ denotes that we're now in the chainlink container
$$ cldev # cldev without the "core" postfix simply calls the core node cli
#
# NAME:
#    main - CLI for Chainlink
# 
# USAGE:
#    main [global options] command [command options] [arguments...]
# 
# VERSION:
#    unset@unset
# 
# COMMANDS:
#    admin              Commands for remotely taking admin related actions
#    bridges            Commands for Bridges communicating with External Adapters
#    config             Commands for the node's configuration
#    jobs               Commands for managing Jobs
#    node, local        Commands for admin actions that must be run locally
#    runs               Commands for managing Runs
#    txs                Commands for handling Ethereum transactions
#    agreements, agree  Commands for handling service agreements
#    attempts, txas     Commands for managing Ethereum Transaction Attempts
#    createextrakey     Create a key in the node's keystore alongside the existing key; to create an original key, just run the node
#    initiators         Commands for managing External Initiators
#    help, h            Shows a list of commands or help for one command
# 
# GLOBAL OPTIONS:
#    --json, -j     json output as opposed to table
#    --help, -h     show help
#    --version, -v  print the version
$$ cldev core # import our testing key and api credentials, then start the node
# 
# ** Importing default key 0x9ca9d2d5e04012c9ed24c0e513c9bfaa4a2dd77f
# 2019-12-11T20:31:18Z [INFO]  Locking postgres for exclusive access with 500ms timeout orm/orm.go:74        #   
# 2019-12-11T20:31:18Z [WARN]  pq: relation "migrations" does not exist           migrations/migrate.go:149 
# ** Running node
# 2019-12-11T20:31:20Z [INFO]  Starting Chainlink Node 0.7.0 at commit 7324e9c476ed6b5c0a08d5a38779d4a6bfbb3880 cmd/local_client.go:27  
# 2019-12-11T20:31:20Z [INFO]  SGX enclave *NOT* loaded                           cmd/enclave.go:11       
# 2019-12-11T20:31:20Z [INFO]  This version of chainlink was not built with support for SGX tasks cmd/enclave.go:12       
# ...
# ...
```

`cldo` allows the user to perform the same actions above, but also applied to the operator-ui codebase and the core codebase. The operator-ui will be hosted in hot-reload/development mode at `http://localhost//3000`. To see the build progress of operator-ui, we can open another terminal to watch its output while we can mess around with the core node in the original terminal.

In the first terminal:
```sh
$ ./compose cldo
#
# $$ denotes that we're now in the chainlink container
$$ cldev # cldev without the "core" postfix simply calls the core node cli
#
# NAME:
#    main - CLI for Chainlink
# 
# USAGE:
#    main [global options] command [command options] [arguments...]
# 
# VERSION:
#    unset@unset
# 
# COMMANDS:
#    admin              Commands for remotely taking admin related actions
#    bridges            Commands for Bridges communicating with External Adapters
#    config             Commands for the node's configuration
#    jobs               Commands for managing Jobs
#    node, local        Commands for admin actions that must be run locally
#    runs               Commands for managing Runs
#    txs                Commands for handling Ethereum transactions
#    agreements, agree  Commands for handling service agreements
#    attempts, txas     Commands for managing Ethereum Transaction Attempts
#    createextrakey     Create a key in the node's keystore alongside the existing key; to create an original key, just run the node
#    initiators         Commands for managing External Initiators
#    help, h            Shows a list of commands or help for one command
# 
# GLOBAL OPTIONS:
#    --json, -j     json output as opposed to table
#    --help, -h     show help
#    --version, -v  print the version
$$ cldev core # import our testing key and api credentials, then start the node
# 
# ** Importing default key 0x9ca9d2d5e04012c9ed24c0e513c9bfaa4a2dd77f
# 2019-12-11T20:31:18Z [INFO]  Locking postgres for exclusive access with 500ms timeout orm/orm.go:74        #   
# 2019-12-11T20:31:18Z [WARN]  pq: relation "migrations" does not exist           migrations/migrate.go:149 
# ** Running node
# 2019-12-11T20:31:20Z [INFO]  Starting Chainlink Node 0.7.0 at commit 7324e9c476ed6b5c0a08d5a38779d4a6bfbb3880 cmd/local_client.go:27  
# 2019-12-11T20:31:20Z [INFO]  SGX enclave *NOT* loaded                           cmd/enclave.go:11       
# 2019-12-11T20:31:20Z [INFO]  This version of chainlink was not built with support for SGX tasks cmd/enclave.go:12       
# ...
# ...
```

In a new terminal:
```sh
docker logs operator-ui -f
```
You'll now have two terminals, one with the core node, one with operator-ui, with both being able to react to code changes without rebuilding their respective images.

### Running integration test suites
The integration test suite will run against a parity node by default. You can run the integration test suite with the following command:
```sh
$ ./compose test
```

If you want to run the test suite against a geth node, you can set the `GETH_MODE` environment variable.
```sh
$ GETH_MODE=true ./compose test
```

If we want to quickly test new changes we make to `integration/` or `tools/ci/ethereum_test` without re-building our images, we can use the `test:dev` command which will reflect those changes from the host file system without rebuilding those containers.
```sh
$ ./compose test:dev
```

### Cleaning up
To remove any containers, volumes, and networks related to our docker-compose setup, we can run the `clean` command:
```sh
./compose clean
```

### Running your own commands based off of docker-compose
The following commands allow you do just about anything:
```sh
$ ./compose <subcommand>
$ ./compose integration <subcommand> # or ./compose i
$ ./compose dev:integration <subcommand> # or ./compose di
$ ./compose dev <subcommand>
```
For example, to see what our compose configuration looks like:
```sh
$ ./compose config # base config
$ ./compose dev:integration # development integration test config
```

Or, to run just an ethereum node:
```sh
$ ./compose up devnet # start a parity devnet node
```
```sh
$ GETH_MODE=true ./compose up devnet # start a geth devnet node
```

# Environment Variables
For more information regarding environment variables, the docker [documentation](https://docs.docker.com/compose/environment-variables/) explains it in great detail.
All of the environment variables listed under the `environment` key in each service contains a default entry under the `.env` file of this directory. Additional environment variables can be added by using the `chainlink-variables.env` file. Both files are further expanded upon below.

## Overriding existing variables 
The existing variables listed under the `environment` key in each service can be overridden by setting a shell environment variable of the same key. For example, referring to `ETH_CHAIN_ID` variable under the `node` service, the default value of `ETH_CHAIN_ID` in `.env` is `34055`. If we wanted to change this to `1337`, we could set a shell variable to override this value.

```sh
export ETH_CHAIN_ID=1337
./compose acceptance # ETH_CHAIN_ID now has the value of 1337, instead of the default value of 34055
```

## Adding new environment variables
What if we want to add new environment variables that are not listed under the `environment` key of a service? `docker-compose` provides us with a way to pass our own variables that are not defined under the `environment` key by using an [env_file](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/#env_file). We can see from our `docker-compose.yaml` file that there is an env file under the name of `chainlink-variables.env`. In this file, you can specify any extra environment variables that you'd like to pass to the associated container.

For example, lets say we want to pass the variable `ALLOW_ORIGINS` defined in `store/orm/schema.go`, so that we can serve our api from a different port without getting CORS errors. We can't pass this in as a shell variable, as the variable is not defined under the `environment` key under the `node` service. What we can do though, is specify `ALLOW_ORIGINS` in `chainlink-variables.env`, which will get passed to the container.
```sh
# assuming that we're in the tools/docker directory

# Add our custom environment variable
echo "ALLOW_ORIGINS=http://localhost:1337" > chainlink-variables.env

# now the node will allow requests from the origin of http://localhost:1337 rather than the default value of http://localhost:3000,http://localhost:6688
./compose acceptance
```

# FAQs

## My storage space is full! How do I clean up docker's disk usage?

```
docker system prune
```

## The build process takes up a lot of resources / brings my computer to a halt

The default configuration tries to build everything in parallel.  You can avoid this by clearing the Docker Compose build options.

```
# Use docker compose's default build configuration
export DOCKER_COMPOSE_BUILD_OPTS=""
```
